---
sidebar: news_sidebar
title: 'On fast large-scale program analysis in Datalog'
date: 2016-03-17
author: psubotic
categories: [paper]
permalink: cc-paper.html
layout: post
---
This is the [system paper about the architecture of Souffle](/pdf/cc.pdf).  It was published in CC'16.

## Abstract 
Designing and crafting a static program analysis is challenging due to the complexity of the task at hand. Among the challenges 
are modelling the semantics of the input language, finding suitable abstractions for the analysis, and handwriting efficient code 
for the analysis in a traditional imperative language such as C++. Hence, the development of static program analysis tools is costly 
in terms of development time and resources for real world languages. To overcome, or at least alleviate the costs of developing a 
static program analysis, Datalog has been proposed as a domain specific language (DSL). With Datalog, a designer expresses a static 
program analysis in the form of a logical specification. While a domain specific language approach aids in the ease of development 
of program analyses, it is commonly accepted that such an approach has worse runtime performance than handcrafted static analysis 
tools. In this work, we introduce a new program synthesis methodology for Datalog specifications to produce highly efficient 
monolithic C++ analyzers. The synthesis technique requires the re-interpretation of the semi-naïve evaluation as a scaffolding for 
translation using partial evaluation. To achieve high-performance, we employ staged- compilation techniques and specialize the 
underlying relational data structures for a given Datalog specification. Experimentation on benchmarks for large-scale program 
analysis validates the superior performance of our approach over available Datalog tools and demonstrates our competitiveness with 
state-of-the-art handcrafted tools.

{% include links.html %}
