---
sidebar: news_sidebar
title: 'Fast Parallel Equivalence Relations in a Datalog Compiler'
date: 2019-09-23
author: b-scholz
categories: [paper]
permalink: pact19-eqrel.html
layout: post
---
This is the [Fast Parallel Equivalence Relations in a Datalog Compiler](/pdf/pact19.pdf).  It was published in the
International Conference on Parallel Architectures and Compilation Techniques, Sep 23-25, Seattle, WA, USA. 
The paper describes the integration of a concurrent equivalence relation 
data-structure in Soufflé that performs the computation of reflexivitiy, symmetry, and transitivity inside the
data-structure. This gives enormous speed-ups and reduces memory overheads. 

## Abstract 
{% include callout.html content="
Modern parallelizing Datalog compilers are em- ployed in industrial applications such as networking and static program analysis. These applications regularly reason about equivalences, e.g., computing bitcoin user groups, fast points-to analyses, and optimal network routes. State-of-the- art Datalog engines represent equivalence relations verbatim by enumerating all possible pairs in an equivalence class. This approach inhibits scalability for large datasets.
In this paper, we introduce EQREL, a specialized parallel union-find data structure for scalable equivalence relations, and its integration into a Datalog compiler. Our data structure pro- vides a quadratic worst-case speed-up and space improvement. We demonstrate the efficacy of our data structure in SOUFFLE ́, which is a Datalog compiler that synthesizes parallel C++ code. We use real-world benchmarks and show that the new data structure scales on shared-memory multi-core architectures storing up to a half-billion pairs for a static program analysis scenario."  type="primary" %} 

{% include links.html %}
