---
sidebar: news_sidebar
title: 'Fast Parallel Equivalence Relations in a Datalog Compiler'
date: 2019-08-15
author: pnappa
categories: [paper]
permalink: pact19.html
layout: post
---

A new [paper](/pdf/pact2019eqrel.pdf) has been published as part of the 28th International Conference on Parallel Architectures and Compilation techniques (PACT). This is an extension of the work [written about previously](/eqrel-post.html), and describes the implementation of equivalence relations natively in compiled Soufflé utilising custom data-structures, and its extension to semi-naive evaluation to accommodate the storage of equivalence relation delta relations efficiently.

## Abstract 
Modern parallelizing Datalog compilers are employed in industrial applications such as networking and static program analysis. These applications regularly reason about equivalences, e.g., computing bitcoin user groups, fast points-to analyses, and optimal network routes. State-of-the-art Datalog engines represent equivalence relations verbatim by enumerating all possible pairs in an equivalence class. This approach inhibits scalability for large datasets.

In this paper, we introduce EQREL, a specialized parallel union-find data structure for scalable equivalence relations, and its integration into a Datalog compiler. Our data structure provides a quadratic worst-case speed-up and space improvement. We demonstrate the efficacy of our data structure in Soufflé, which is a Datalog compiler that synthesizes parallel C++ code. We use real-world benchmarks and show that the new data structure scales on shared-memory multi-core architectures storing up to a half-billion pairs for a static program analysis scenario.

{% include links.html %}

